Caption: okay excellent
Caption: so i just wanted to start off today by
Caption: thanking our amazing sponsors um without
Caption: them we wouldn't be able to do today and
Caption: also our community members as well just
Caption: wanted to give them a bit of a shout out
Caption: and all the volunteers for ddd walking
Caption: around today um just a huge shadow and
Caption: thank you to them as well
Caption: so i'm gonna go straight into it today
Caption: so for the next 45 minutes i'm going to
Caption: be talking about the
Caption: very much avoided world of challenging
Caption: conversations
Caption: i have avoided them i'm assuming a lot
Caption: of people in this room on the camera
Caption: have avoided challenging conversations
Caption: and that's a natural tendency they are
Caption: somewhat terrifying for a lot of
Caption: individuals and today i'm hoping to
Caption: provide you with the puzzle pieces to
Caption: make them
Caption: a little less intimidating to give you
Caption: the confidence to have them
Caption: and the confidence to know that you are
Caption: less likely to damage relationships by
Caption: having these conversations
Caption: specifically what i'm going to cover
Caption: is
Caption: we have
Caption: we're you know delightfully complex
Caption: human beings we are
Caption: so i'm going to go through our amazing
Caption: brains and how
Caption: what is happening in here is going to
Caption: contribute to these challenging
Caption: conversations because i feel as though
Caption: if you know you know knowledge is power
Caption: and if you know more about what's going
Caption: on up here in these conversations it
Caption: tends to help well it helps me
Caption: understand what's going on in them
Caption: we're going to look at some key
Caption: considerations so this is just what to
Caption: consider before you have a challenging
Caption: conversation and some things that might
Caption: help
Caption: reduce that anxiety of having them as
Caption: well then we're going to look at some
Caption: feedback models
Caption: this is
Caption: some proven models that are out there
Caption: that will help with delivering some
Caption: feedback if that is the situation that
Caption: you're in and then lastly we're going to
Caption: look at a framework and this is going to
Caption: help you prepare for those conversations
Caption: and just make you feel a little bit more
Caption: confident in having them
Caption: the person that inspired me for this
Caption: talk you know i was talking about a
Caption: challenging conversation with an
Caption: individual and they're like oh no way
Caption: that's terrifying there is i'm not
Caption: having this conversation and so they're
Caption: the reason i'm doing the talk today
Caption: because i want to
Caption: help make them less terrifying basically
Caption: so just to cover
Caption: the key elements as to
Caption: why
Caption: um a lot of people find them so
Caption: intimidating terrifying if you will is
Caption: they usually involve a lot of
Caption: uncertainty
Caption: so you know you go into a conversation
Caption: you have no idea how that individual is
Caption: going to react even if you know them
Caption: really really well
Caption: there's a lot of uncertainty around
Caption: what how you might react and what you
Caption: might say in those situations as well
Caption: there's
Caption: typically a lot of emotions involved in
Caption: challenging conversations and this is
Caption: where we're going to go more into our
Caption: brains later on as well around you know
Caption: what is going on that um attributes to
Caption: these emotions
Caption: they're usually necessary so having a
Caption: challenging conversation be because
Caption: there is a delay in a project for
Caption: example is usually necessary to get that
Caption: project from a to b
Caption: or they're usually necessary because
Caption: there is a problem within the team and
Caption: you need to talk to someone um in order
Caption: to to rectify that problem so they're
Caption: often necessary and often avoided which
Caption: i think if you avoid a conversation
Caption: that's a missed opportunity for
Caption: potential growth so they are often
Caption: necessary and something that we really
Caption: do need to to get better at
Caption: as individuals to make sure that we're
Caption: you know fixing some problems out there
Caption: as well
Caption: and as well as being necessary to fix
Caption: potential problems they often if they're
Caption: done well lead to growth and this is
Caption: because
Caption: if they're done well then they lead to
Caption: growth for that individual you've
Caption: highlighted something new to them
Caption: or they can lead to growth for yourself
Caption: so you know going through the framework
Caption: today hopefully if you have these
Caption: conversations more
Caption: they'll lead to growth for you as an
Caption: individual as well
Caption: so i'm going to dive straight into it
Caption: there's a bit of interaction here so
Caption: people in this room can do it and on
Caption: camera i'm hoping you do as well
Caption: but what i want you to do is with your
Caption: dominant hand click five times
Caption: excellent now with your other hand i
Caption: want you to write the capital e on your
Caption: forehead
Caption: great hoping people online are doing
Caption: this
Caption: so what this does it's not a definitive
Caption: exercise it's a bit of fun but what it
Caption: does is highlights the importance of
Caption: perspective so there's two ways that
Caption: individuals would have written the e
Caption: here you would have written it for
Caption: either yourself
Caption: to read it or for others to read it and
Caption: this is probably the biggest component
Caption: of challenging conversations
Caption: if you go into them thinking that your
Caption: perspective and the way that you write
Caption: the e is
Caption: the only thing to take into
Caption: consideration you're going to
Caption: immediately fail before you start so
Caption: this
Caption: is what's called the e-test
Caption: you know obviously it's um
Caption: it is something that i like to do before
Caption: a challenging conversation now that i
Caption: know the kind of
Caption: you know way it's done what it does do
Caption: though is puts me in the right mindset
Caption: so am i walking into this challenging
Caption: conversation thinking about how someone
Caption: else is perceiving something or am i
Caption: walking in purely with my lens here
Caption: um
Caption: you could i tried this on my
Caption: four-year-old and um
Caption: i i don't recommend doing this for
Caption: children we spend about an hour talking
Caption: about how she couldn't use a permanent
Caption: marker on her forehead to write an e
Caption: so i would say above the age of four is
Caption: the ideal age to use this based on my
Caption: extensive research
Caption: but again it's just a little bit of fun
Caption: and it's nice to put you into that right
Caption: right headspace before a challenging
Caption: convo
Caption: and i wanted to spend just a little bit
Caption: more time on perspective here because i
Caption: really do think it's absolutely key for
Caption: challenging conversations
Caption: so you can see these two images here and
Caption: this one
Caption: on the left is one i think a lot of you
Caption: would have seen in this room
Caption: and let's look at it in a few ways so
Caption: we've got here
Caption: some people perceive
Caption: to see what what they perceive to see as
Caption: a younger woman
Caption: some see an older woman
Caption: others see a beaver or an eagle my
Caption: daughter sees a butterfly
Caption: i don't see the beaver or eagle at all
Caption: and um for those who want to know
Caption: you know where the other images are you
Caption: can come after me ask me afterwards but
Caption: i don't see the beaver and eagle and i
Caption: have stared at this image for
Caption: an inappropriately long amount of time
Caption: and
Caption: it's not there for me but what i'm
Caption: saying and highlighting here is that
Caption: just because i can't see it doesn't mean
Caption: that it doesn't exist
Caption: and this is what we have to think about
Caption: before going into challenging
Caption: conversations
Caption: is what you can see might be the
Caption: complete opposite of what someone else
Caption: can see it's a huge huge consideration
Caption: in terms of challenging conversations
Caption: the way to um i'll just jump back to
Caption: that one actually
Caption: the way to
Caption: go into a challenging conversation is
Caption: approaching it with that curiosity so
Caption: putting your feelings aside and putting
Caption: more of a curiosity mindset so before
Caption: going to a challenging conversation
Caption: instead of going you know someone did x
Caption: and i'm mad at them for that that is
Caption: your perspective here
Caption: rather than saying
Caption: you know i'm mad at them go you know
Caption: they did this i'm curious as to why they
Caption: reacted like that it's the you know it's
Caption: a more productive conversation it'll be
Caption: more conducive to growth
Caption: um so huge if you take nothing else away
Caption: from today that is what i want you to to
Caption: walk away with
Caption: now we're going to go
Caption: our brain this is my favorite topic so i
Caption: am going to
Caption: not spend too long on this slide because
Caption: i could talk for about 45 minutes on the
Caption: psychology behind our brains so i'll
Caption: spare you all
Caption: but what we've got here is
Caption: amazing clip art
Caption: by myself
Caption: i'm not a um creative in any way so
Caption: you know be gentle with me on these
Caption: slides um but what we've got here is
Caption: our brain it is not um
Caption: anatomically correct but it's roughly
Caption: there so what we get here is our
Caption: prefrontal cortex so this area of the
Caption: brain
Caption: this is in charge of our executive
Caption: thinking this is the part of the brain
Caption: that we want to use a lot more
Caption: then we've got the limbic system here
Caption: and this is where
Caption: the amygdala there's actually two of
Caption: them but the amygdala sits in here
Caption: and the limbic system is in charge for
Caption: emotions and then we've got the amygdala
Caption: which is responsible for our fight or
Caption: flight now this is
Caption: very much simplifying the brain is much
Caption: more complex than this beautiful clip
Caption: art but
Caption: it gives you a rough idea as to what is
Caption: happening here now i'm going to go
Caption: through how these three components of
Caption: the brain
Caption: really really contribute to a
Caption: challenging conversation
Caption: so we've got here when our brain reacts
Caption: to physiological stress such as a
Caption: challenging conversation
Caption: and for your benefit our brains react
Caption: the same way to a physical
Caption: or emotional stress so it's it's they
Caption: react the same way so it's equally as
Caption: important so what happens is what's
Caption: called the amygdala hijack
Caption: and that is when
Caption: the amygdala here sends out all these
Caption: signals releases all of these stress
Caption: hormones
Caption: and
Caption: starts to do things like send blood flow
Caption: to our limbs and away from that great
Caption: prefrontal cortex part of our brain so
Caption: it sends blood to our limbs to
Caption: physically
Caption: fight or flight
Caption: um so you need to you know have blood in
Caption: those areas to get up and leave
Caption: or fight the person which you know
Caption: really we don't want to do in these
Caption: situations
Caption: and that is what's happening it's taking
Caption: the blood away from all these parts that
Caption: we need and then what happens as a
Caption: result is we start to lose things like
Caption: our logic
Caption: our ability to listen to the individual
Caption: our empathy which is really important in
Caption: a challenging conversation and our
Caption: problem solving as well
Caption: this
Caption: amygdala hijack situation is fantastic
Caption: for
Caption: actual survival purposes it is not so
Caption: fantastic for things like challenging
Caption: conversations or public speaking for
Caption: example so that is why when people often
Caption: get up and do a talk like today i am not
Caption: going to remember every word that i have
Caption: written down here
Caption: because there would be an element of my
Caption: brain trying to go into this fight or
Caption: flight mode because there is an element
Caption: of being stressed out about getting in
Caption: front of people and talking and what i'm
Caption: going to do is show you some tips on how
Caption: to reduce that i'll show you what's
Caption: going on in my brain right now to reduce
Caption: me going into this
Caption: where i would lose complete logic and
Caption: the ability to talk to you about the
Caption: topic that i have spent quite a long
Caption: time looking at
Caption: so how can we avoid it so these are some
Caption: tips
Caption: first tip i'm going to go through is um
Caption: one that i had probably two days ago
Caption: from a colleague at first mode and that
Caption: is eat a banana
Caption: apparently there is a natural beta
Caption: blockers in bananas that are released
Caption: now i've been reading up on it since
Caption: then and you would have to eat
Caption: quite a few bananas but i'm willing i'm
Caption: willing before if we get to do this in
Caption: front of a large crowd i'm gonna eat
Caption: like five bananas beforehand
Caption: um and i will test the theory and if
Caption: it's placebo or not i don't care i think
Caption: um it'll be a bit of fun anyway
Caption: but
Caption: the best thing we can do
Caption: to avoid
Caption: fight or flight or reduce it
Caption: is recognize it and what i mean by that
Caption: is there's a thing called a stress or
Caption: amygdala audit and that is where you
Caption: know individuals on the call sorry on
Caption: the video or in this room
Caption: just have a think about your individual
Caption: response
Caption: so we are all
Caption: individuals i can't tell you that every
Caption: single one of you are going to
Caption: experience these symptoms up here
Caption: because that's what makes us so unique
Caption: and amazing
Caption: so have a quick think
Caption: at the moment as to what your stress
Caption: response is
Caption: mine
Caption: is i can feel my heart rate it starts to
Caption: increase when i get stressed so as soon
Caption: as i start to feel it out i'm like okay
Caption: i know i know what's happening i start
Caption: to tremble so you'll see people up
Caption: during talks really trembling and that
Caption: is a um they don't want to be doing that
Caption: that is a subconscious reaction to
Caption: stress so you know people don't want to
Caption: be showing these visible signs it is
Caption: their brains that are doing this to them
Caption: so the best thing to do
Caption: is recognize your individual stress
Caption: response because once you know that and
Caption: once you know your individual response
Caption: you can then put some things in place to
Caption: reduce that
Caption: so you can use some of these tips and
Caption: again i say some because there is a lot
Caption: more out there we could have another 20
Caption: slides on this topic
Caption: what you can do is if you start to see
Caption: these signs in yourself or individuals
Caption: that you're speaking to so for example
Caption: part of my role is to have challenging
Caption: conversations it's not my favorite part
Caption: of my role
Caption: but
Caption: it is what it is
Caption: i start to see a lot of this so the
Caption: flushed skin
Caption: when you're talking to individuals and
Caption: they're getting stressed their voice
Caption: will change they'll get kind of visibly
Caption: flushed
Caption: and this is when i start to put some of
Caption: these things in place to help them as
Caption: individuals as well so it can help you
Caption: and it can help them
Caption: so the first one here is breathe and it
Caption: sounds quite simple but
Caption: taking that moment to breathe
Caption: i should probably do it during this talk
Caption: i'm terrible at it
Caption: um taking that moment this big deep
Caption: breath in
Caption: and that's because when we breathe you
Caption: get that delicious oxygen into your body
Caption: which increases blood flow and as we
Caption: said before we want more blood flow
Caption: going to that prefrontal cortex area of
Caption: our brain so there's a lot of reasons
Caption: why breathing is really good
Caption: a lot of reasons keeps us alive right
Caption: but deep breathing is what i mean
Caption: labeling it so that's what i'm doing
Caption: today if i start to feel my heart
Caption: increase if my hands start to tremble
Caption: i'm telling myself like siobhan chill
Caption: this is your brain
Caption: doing this to you
Caption: and what this does is this
Caption: goes back to the prefrontal cortex of
Caption: our brain because you're using executive
Caption: thinking here and the more you engage
Caption: that the less you engage your amygdala
Caption: so that's what you want to do in terms
Caption: of being in a challenging conversation
Caption: if you're the one delivering that
Caption: conversation
Caption: if you want to have that in a logical
Caption: empathetic way you need to label going
Caption: into that stress response
Caption: so
Caption: it really is as simple as that saying to
Caption: your brain stop this is what's happening
Caption: and then the last one here is take a
Caption: break
Caption: so it takes about
Caption: 20 to 30 minutes for individuals to get
Caption: out of an acute stress response
Caption: so if someone is showing all of these
Caption: signs breathing's not working labeling
Caption: it's not working
Caption: 20 to 30 minute break is what you need
Caption: to do to get back to a productive
Caption: conversation
Caption: how i like to word this to make the
Caption: individual feel
Caption: you know less stressed and intimidated
Caption: about the situation is i like to say you
Caption: know what i think i need a 20 to 30
Caption: minute break here
Caption: i think this is a heavy conversation and
Caption: let's just kind of reconvene in 20
Caption: minutes and that's what i do if i start
Caption: to see individuals really going into
Caption: this fight or flight mode
Caption: what i'm hoping is
Caption: with some of the tips today with the
Caption: framework with the models
Caption: we can reduce the effects of this
Caption: and another huge way to reduce it is
Caption: understanding the power of our wording
Caption: so you know going to a challenging
Caption: conversation
Caption: rephrasing really simple things
Caption: is going to have a huge effect on
Caption: whether or not someone goes into fight
Caption: or flight
Caption: so let's look at the power of positive
Caption: wording and what you can do so we've got
Caption: rephrasing this is something that i use
Caption: all the time in terms of coaching a lot
Caption: of leaders and this is rephrasing a
Caption: situation so rephrasing from a person to
Caption: a situation so let's look at this
Caption: example here it's exactly the same thing
Caption: and the same message just said in a
Caption: different way so if you're talking about
Caption: the person you would say things like you
Caption: didn't
Caption: um support the business case with enough
Caption: evidence so you and you're already kind
Caption: of making that person feel individually
Caption: kind of uncomfortable and attacked
Caption: if you reworded that to
Caption: this business case could be stronger
Caption: with more recent research to strengthen
Caption: the likelihood of approval
Caption: you are saying the same thing but you're
Caption: making it specific to the situation
Caption: versus to them as an individual
Caption: so if you want to go and get a better
Caption: result this is how you would word it
Caption: you can also use what-if statements
Caption: they're really great in terms of let's
Caption: use this as an example
Caption: what if we used more research
Caption: to get a better outcome for this
Caption: business case
Caption: it's just a different way of waiting
Caption: things
Caption: to get a better outcome
Caption: the power of wording in a negative sense
Caption: so
Caption: i like these some of these are really
Caption: obvious but i hear them all the time and
Caption: i just want to explain um why they might
Caption: be best avoided and the reason i say
Caption: might is it's depending on the context
Caption: the situation i'm also not the knower
Caption: of all things challenging conversations
Caption: and
Caption: negative wording
Caption: but things like to be honest
Caption: this does a few things it implies that
Caption: you weren't honest in the first place
Caption: which is not a great thing to do
Caption: but it also i mean i don't know if
Caption: anyone in this room has ever heard
Caption: to be honest and then something positive
Caption: it's usually
Caption: followed you know a precursor to
Caption: something negative
Caption: so when someone hears the words to be
Caption: honest their brain starts to release
Caption: those hormones because they know
Caption: something negative is going to happen
Caption: so avoiding that is probably best in
Caption: terms of that fight-or-flight response
Caption: you're awesome but
Caption: so the word but
Caption: there is some research out there that
Caption: suggests that we negate the phrase
Caption: before but
Caption: so what i mean by that is if you used
Caption: this for example
Caption: the business case
Caption: could be stronger with more research
Caption: but you're awesome
Caption: some research suggests that all people
Caption: are going to hear is you're awesome and
Caption: they're going to miss that juicy part
Caption: about adding more research into the
Caption: business case
Caption: so that's one that you is
Caption: best to avoid if you can
Caption: if i were you this one to me i just feel
Caption: as though
Caption: you're not them
Caption: that's the simple fact you're not that
Caption: individual
Caption: and also can come across slightly
Caption: patronizing because you're saying if i
Caption: was if i were you because i'm better
Caption: clearly is i'm wiping the mic on it um
Caption: if i were you
Caption: because i'm better than you that is it's
Caption: just not a nice feeling um what i like
Caption: to use instead of if i were you was
Caption: in the past i have done this and that
Caption: really helped me and that's just like a
Caption: nice suggestion versus saying this is
Caption: what i've done because i'm better
Caption: no offense i think this one should just
Caption: be completely avoided
Caption: because if you have to say no offense
Caption: you should perhaps question why what
Caption: you're about to say is offensive
Caption: so avoiding this one is my
Caption: recommendation
Caption: um i don't think it's ever been followed
Caption: with something positive i've never heard
Caption: no offense you're awesome it's usually
Caption: followed by something relatively
Caption: negative and as soon as someone hears
Caption: this phrase
Caption: again those hormones are going to start
Caption: to be released
Caption: so the power of wording is really really
Caption: huge in terms of consideration for
Caption: challenging conversations
Caption: i'm going to go through a few more
Caption: considerations in terms of
Caption: coming out of them with more success
Caption: so firstly we've got time
Caption: and this is where you need to consider
Caption: your best time for a challenging
Caption: conversation there's some research that
Caption: suggests um
Caption: your prefrontal cortex is fresher in the
Caption: morning we start to lose the ability to
Caption: inhibit emotions as the day goes on
Caption: i
Caption: am not a morning person so that is um
Caption: although there's a lot of research out
Caption: there that suggests so um i swear my
Caption: prefrontal cortex like i'm on point at
Caption: about
Caption: 11 a.m so that was probably when i will
Caption: start to book in these meetings
Caption: their schedule now what i mean by this
Caption: is if you're about to have a
Caption: conversation with an individual and
Caption: they're then going to go into a client
Caption: meeting for a presentation or if someone
Caption: had some feedback from me and they told
Caption: me just before my d2d talk it's like
Caption: it's it's probably not the best time
Caption: and that is because as i said before
Caption: that 20 to 30 minute window for fight or
Caption: flight
Caption: if you walk away from a challenging
Caption: conversation even if you use the
Caption: frameworks and you nail it
Caption: there is an element of stress involved
Caption: and so you want to really consider their
Caption: schedule
Caption: you want to set enough time and again
Caption: that brings it back to that 20 to 30
Caption: minute break or needing to breathe and
Caption: have some pauses
Caption: so don't try and squeeze in a
Caption: conversation for half an hour because
Caption: that's the only time for the day
Caption: consider another day that has more time
Caption: in it for you
Caption: and then the biggest question i get
Caption: asked a lot when i do some coaching
Caption: around this topic is are fridays okay
Caption: and
Caption: i personally think so if you do them
Caption: well what i don't think is great is when
Caption: you send someone that blank agenda for a
Caption: monday on a friday that's
Caption: that's where i recommend you reconsider
Caption: but i think if you can
Caption: do this well and with empathy and
Caption: kindness
Caption: i don't think it matters what day you
Caption: have these conversations
Caption: we have location
Caption: off-site versus on-site what i mean by
Caption: this one here is
Caption: i've had a few um individuals that i've
Caption: had to speak to around they've come to
Caption: me and said hey shiv i had a meeting
Caption: with someone so at the pub on friday and
Caption: it went terribly
Caption: and that is because
Caption: from multitude of factors around you
Caption: know how they handled the conversation
Caption: but if you add alcohol into the mix you
Caption: know we know what that already does to
Caption: the brain in terms of inhibiting logic
Caption: and things like that
Caption: and so
Caption: my advice is to avoid the pub setting um
Caption: cafe all those sort of things depending
Caption: on the context of the
Caption: conversation is fine as well
Caption: a walk and talk so this is
Caption: i highly recommend this
Caption: and that is because when we walk um you
Caption: know our blood is circulating more we
Caption: get more oxygen and again all those
Caption: delicious things for our brain that we
Caption: need so walk and talks are really proven
Caption: to have more effective outcomes for
Caption: challenging conversations
Caption: and we've got room positioning now this
Caption: one seems a little bit over the top i'm
Caption: kind of glad i've got to show you here
Caption: but what i mean is
Caption: our brains are scanning for threats
Caption: every 20 to 30 seconds or you know quite
Caption: regularly
Caption: as we're scanning for threats we're also
Caption: scanning for safety we're scanning for
Caption: exits
Caption: so what we're doing is we walk into a
Caption: room and subconsciously we're working
Caption: out where the door is because if
Caption: something happens out there in that room
Caption: how do we get out so what i like to do
Caption: is um
Caption: i sit someone
Caption: in a in an office setting
Caption: next to the door because subconsciously
Caption: they will they'll feel safer and they'll
Caption: have no idea why again this is little
Caption: but if we can do all these little things
Caption: it's it's only going to lead to a better
Caption: outcome
Caption: and how i do that so some people are
Caption: like how do you how do you make someone
Caption: sit somewhere without being like sit
Caption: there when they walk in and all i do is
Caption: i sit
Caption: a glass of water where i want someone to
Caption: go and i have my glass of water in front
Caption: of me
Caption: i mean there is a few times where if
Caption: someone's not thirsty they'll walk
Caption: straight past it and that's that's cool
Caption: that's fine
Caption: um but most of the time that trick has
Caption: worked for me
Caption: um trick is probably not the right word
Caption: as well because you don't want to trick
Caption: someone but that tip has worked for me
Caption: um and that's just a really it's a small
Caption: thing that you can do to help those
Caption: individuals
Caption: what i'm saying just in summary to this
Caption: one here is you just want them to be in
Caption: a comfortable safe environment you
Caption: really want to make sure that that
Caption: person
Caption: has
Caption: limited or reduced stress in terms of
Caption: the environment you choose because if
Caption: it's a hard conversation there is
Caption: already going to be elements of stress
Caption: involved
Caption: the medium and what i mean by this you
Caption: know we've got teams we've got zoom
Caption: we've got face-to-face
Caption: my recommendation is always face to face
Caption: and that's because
Caption: some research suggests anything from 70
Caption: to 80 of conversations
Caption: are non-verbal and that's body language
Caption: and also we've just gone through all of
Caption: the fight or flight responses most of
Caption: those are visible unless it's yourself
Caption: so you can't tell if you need to back up
Caption: from a conversation if it's not face to
Caption: face
Caption: for example in the talk today if it
Caption: wasn't face to face i couldn't tell if
Caption: some of you were kind of nodding off and
Caption: falling asleep and if that was the case
Caption: i would spend less time and kind of
Caption: pivot to another topic
Caption: we're in a day and age where
Caption: video calls
Caption: you know it's remote working and that's
Caption: fantastic and that's what i mean by
Caption: face-to-face would be recommending a
Caption: video call over that phone call
Caption: and do not disturb you know team zoom
Caption: whatever
Caption: you choose to use has those do not
Caption: disturb features and i think that's
Caption: really important to use or if you're in
Caption: a
Caption: meeting room making sure it's booked you
Caption: there is nothing worse when someone is
Caption: flustered in a conversation and then you
Caption: know people just like waltz on in um
Caption: if you can avoid it that would that's
Caption: the ideal
Caption: your mindset so this is really important
Caption: because if your resilience levels are
Caption: low
Caption: um and you go into a conversation there
Caption: is a lot that contribute to that
Caption: conversation going straight into that
Caption: fight or flight mode so if you're
Caption: feeling stressed already i wouldn't
Caption: recommend going to these conversations i
Caption: would wait a day if you could
Caption: sleep on it and this is where checking
Caption: your intention is really important so i
Caption: have a lot of leaders that come to me
Caption: and say
Caption: um
Caption: so-and-so did this and i'm raging i'm so
Caption: mad at them and i want to like i want to
Caption: tell them that they've done something
Caption: wrong and i want to give them into
Caption: trouble and i'm like oh this is not
Caption: going to go well
Caption: i i ask them to reflect and change their
Caption: intention
Caption: instead of saying x to this and i want
Caption: to give them into trouble which i don't
Caption: think is healthy language anyway um go
Caption: in and say x did this and i'm curious as
Caption: to why it's out of character for them
Caption: why did they do this
Caption: if you think about it the majority of
Caption: people when i say majority
Caption: because some people don't but most
Caption: people
Caption: go to work wanting to do a good job
Caption: so when someone does something that is
Caption: not so great it's it's either they
Caption: haven't um
Caption: thought about it they haven't perceived
Caption: the other views they haven't thought
Caption: about their impact so going into it with
Caption: a curious mindset will really change the
Caption: outcome of the conversation and the
Caption: reason i say work setting here is you'll
Caption: be getting the vibe but this is more the
Caption: talk today is centered around
Caption: challenging conversations in the
Caption: workplace
Caption: i have tested
Caption: the framework with my husband
Caption: he knew i was doing it so it didn't go
Caption: so well
Caption: teeny bit patronizing but
Caption: it worked on my children so
Caption: because they had no idea
Caption: so you can use it in a personal setting
Caption: but today is more around that
Caption: professional environment
Caption: and lastly we've got preparation and
Caption: this is where you need cold hard facts
Caption: you need to know the facts about what
Caption: you're walking into you won't know all
Caption: of them because you still need to get
Caption: that from the individual
Caption: and this is where the framework will
Caption: help so i'm going to go through that for
Caption: you now
Caption: ah this is to remind me thank you um
Caption: there is a few things though to consider
Caption: in terms of having challenging
Caption: conversations and that is to understand
Caption: the power of silence
Caption: there is a lot of
Caption: research out there around extrovert
Caption: versus introvert personality types and
Caption: how we intake information so for example
Caption: and generalizing here because it's not
Caption: always the case introverts often need
Caption: that moment to pause and reflect before
Caption: speaking
Caption: versus extroverts finding that silence
Caption: uncomfortable and talking over it so if
Caption: you're in a challenging conversation
Caption: really pausing not only because that
Caption: pause will help the individual respond
Caption: better but also that gives you a moment
Caption: to breathe it gives you a moment to
Caption: chill for a second and we all know how
Caption: that you know important that is for our
Caption: brains
Caption: the reflection piece now this is because
Caption: i've had even in personal situations
Caption: where um you know you've walked away and
Caption: gone that person wasn't even listening
Caption: to me well they were really irrational
Caption: and not being logical at all
Caption: give them some time because they've
Caption: probably gone into fight or flight at
Caption: this
Caption: point something you said something's
Caption: triggered them whatever has happened i
Caption: mean
Caption: i recommend these frameworks and i still
Caption: go into these conversations sometimes
Caption: and emotions take over and i don't do
Caption: them as well as i'd hope so give them
Caption: some time to reflect because a lot of
Caption: the time people will come back
Caption: think in more of that logical brain of
Caption: theirs
Caption: and come back and be like you know what
Caption: you're right
Caption: and so giving that time for them to
Caption: reflect is really important and also
Caption: follow-up so i'm going to give you this
Caption: framework but if you leave it at that
Caption: and you just kind of
Caption: walk away
Caption: you need to follow up you need to check
Caption: in with that individual and that's a
Caption: really important element of this
Caption: framework
Caption: also importantly is knowing again my
Caption: amazing clipper i had a lot of fun doing
Caption: this um i had to tone down the
Caption: animations there was a lot but what i'm
Caption: saying here is it's not a script
Caption: so the framework i'm about to propose is
Caption: not a script to hide behind and that is
Caption: because
Caption: we humans
Caption: um react with uncertainty we don't know
Caption: how it's going to go
Caption: so how i recommend this framework is to
Caption: use it as a repertoire of responses like
Caption: what could happen um and i'm going to go
Caption: through one that i have written before
Caption: and um you know versus going in and
Caption: saying like reading from a script that's
Caption: disingenuine and it's it's obvious when
Caption: you're doing it as well
Caption: so let's go through the framework you'd
Caption: see the puzzle theme going on here to
Caption: get it
Caption: again i had too much fun uh so the
Caption: intent this is where you start off in
Caption: the meeting and or the conversation and
Caption: say
Caption: what the intent is and this is where you
Caption: have to be really genuine
Caption: and go you know
Caption: today i want to have talk to you about
Caption: feedback and get your perspective and
Caption: that's the intent today
Caption: um it really sets the tone for the
Caption: remainder of the conversation
Caption: feedback so this is where you use a
Caption: feedback model and i'm going to go
Caption: through those in a second so i'm just
Caption: going to leave that lovely little puzzle
Caption: piece up there for you and we'll go into
Caption: that in a little bit more detail
Caption: this is where you check their
Caption: perspective
Caption: so you've just said this is the intent i
Caption: want to share some feedback today and
Caption: get your your perspective
Caption: this is the feedback what are your
Caption: thoughts did i accurately
Caption: describe the situation
Caption: what is your thoughts on the impact that
Caption: that's had so this is the part where you
Caption: you know you can't plan for and you
Caption: really need to just
Caption: ask really open curious um questions
Caption: here
Caption: show understanding so this is when
Caption: you
Caption: really have to show that you've listened
Caption: and you can do this in a few ways you
Caption: can repeat what they've said because
Caption: that's either that's also confirming
Caption: that you've heard correctly and it's
Caption: showing that you've actually genuinely
Caption: listened
Caption: um and this shows that kind of
Caption: empathetic side of it because if you
Caption: just go here's the feedback here's your
Caption: perspective but yeah whatever and keep
Caption: going
Caption: what was the point in this section here
Caption: and then you have hands up and this is
Caption: what i say to a lot of leaders in
Caption: particular
Caption: you need to take ownership for your part
Caption: in the situation and that could be as a
Caption: leader for example i often question them
Caption: and say did you provide enough support
Caption: for this person were you accessible
Caption: enough so this is when you say or you
Caption: ask questions like that did i was i
Caption: there enough for you when you needed it
Caption: and just take a little bit of ownership
Caption: as to your part of this potential
Caption: situation
Caption: and then lastly
Caption: now you can get to the solution part a
Caption: lot of people really try and like fit
Caption: solution in these sections here but you
Caption: really need to just kind of get through
Caption: the whole conversation and then
Caption: collaboratively
Caption: that word always gets me um
Caption: discuss a solution together and what are
Caption: the next steps
Caption: now if it's a
Caption: really performance-based conversation so
Caption: for example a lot of the ones that i
Caption: would have
Caption: what i say to people is you need to tell
Caption: them
Caption: the next steps very clearly here and
Caption: that's because it's kind to do so so you
Caption: need to say to them
Caption: this is an extreme example
Caption: if we see this situation
Caption: again
Caption: there will be a warning down the track
Caption: and that is you know people are often
Caption: like geez that's blunt
Caption: i think that if you don't tell people
Caption: what could happen if this happens again
Caption: and then you give them a warning
Caption: it's it's such a shock and i don't think
Caption: that's a very kind thing to do so just
Caption: highlighting the next steps if um from a
Caption: like severity perspective it's at that
Caption: real you know hard performance side of
Caption: things
Caption: now what i'm going to do is go into this
Caption: little feedback section for you okay
Caption: i'm going to rehash that whole framework
Caption: because i've just thrown a lot of words
Caption: at you on a lot of colorful puzzle
Caption: pieces
Caption: so we'll go through these feedback
Caption: models and then um the framework again
Caption: now this one's a little controversial
Caption: the dinosaur has to lie in the mood for
Caption: it but i think that
Caption: sandwiches are for eating and they
Caption: shouldn't live in the land of feedback
Caption: and for those that don't know the
Caption: feedback
Caption: sandwich model is when you use this
Caption: delicious bit of bread gluten free or
Caption: otherwise
Caption: as the compliment so you go in and you
Caption: start to compliment someone
Caption: this is where a lot of people spend too
Caption: much time
Caption: and
Caption: often
Caption: people know you that you're doing it and
Caption: i feel as if this model can be a little
Caption: bit patronizing and it can also
Caption: delay
Caption: this middle layer this middle layer the
Caption: cheese lettuce beef whatever whatever
Caption: you eat whatever you do you
Caption: this bit is usually the constructive
Caption: piece of feedback that you want to give
Caption: this person
Caption: and often they're just waiting for this
Caption: and the more you complement and drag
Caption: that along the more they're sitting
Caption: there getting stressed because they're
Caption: like what is happening get to the point
Caption: so for the
Caption: feedback sandwich is complement
Caption: feedback and then complement again and
Caption: often people know they're being
Caption: sandwiched so my suggestion and some
Caption: people love this model again this is not
Caption: for me
Caption: um i was thinking about another food
Caption: analogy because i like i love food and
Caption: this is this is a food analogy
Caption: and so i thought about a pizza
Caption: why don't we look at it as get straight
Caption: to the feedback get the topping this
Caption: delicious ham cheese topping make that
Caption: the feedback get straight to it
Caption: and then the base
Caption: can be instead of a compliment
Caption: saying what strengths that they have
Caption: that will help solve
Caption: that that situation that you just
Caption: described so think of it more as a
Caption: delicious bit of feedback here are your
Caption: strengths that i think will help you
Caption: move on from this and it's just i think
Caption: a little bit more genuine than the over
Caption: complimenting trying to really pull and
Caption: drag that out
Caption: i'm going to be very interested to hear
Caption: the feedback on the pizza v sandwich
Caption: now this is the model that i like to use
Caption: i'm going to show you two models today
Caption: and this is what's called the sbi model
Caption: and this is
Caption: um proven to reduce
Caption: the anxiety of the person delivering
Caption: feedback um and reduce the defense
Caption: defenses of the recipient as well so
Caption: it's a really great model
Caption: i like it because i have a relatively
Caption: direct personality and so i like to just
Caption: get to the point there is another model
Caption: that is slightly
Caption: more suited to those that would prefer
Caption: that less direct style
Caption: so let's go through it we've got the
Caption: specific part of this model
Caption: and this is when you say
Caption: what happened
Caption: and sorry this is what you say when and
Caption: where it occurred
Caption: so this isn't new this should not offend
Caption: the individual because you're simply
Caption: recalling
Caption: so let's look at the example here
Caption: during the project kickoff meeting with
Caption: xyz on tuesday it's as simple as that
Caption: you're just bringing their brains back
Caption: to what happened sorry when and where
Caption: whatever you're talking about happened
Caption: nothing offensive here behavior and this
Caption: is where you simply describe what was
Caption: observed you don't make assumptions
Caption: about their behavior you don't say like
Caption: i saw you do this but it's probably
Caption: because you're a little bit grumpy that
Caption: day probably in a mood and that is
Caption: you don't assume so this is where you
Caption: just go cold hard facts again
Caption: and again this should not be offensive
Caption: because it's simply recalling what
Caption: happened
Caption: the example here
Caption: if anyone's called bob in the audience i
Caption: always use this name so i apologize i'm
Caption: not picking on you
Caption: um if i had a boy it would definitely
Caption: have been bob
Caption: you said bob was being lazy with his
Caption: deliverables and that would and that
Caption: they would be lucky to achieve the
Caption: deadline
Caption: in front of the client this is where
Caption: this situation happened this is a real
Caption: example
Caption: and this is recalling you're just
Caption: telling them what happened
Caption: this part here impact is where they'll
Caption: learn something new and this is where
Caption: all that delicious growth will hopefully
Caption: come in so you say to the individual
Caption: either from your point of view from me i
Caption: was highlighting the clients and the
Caption: team implications
Caption: it was a lot kind of broader than this
Caption: but the impact was this impacts our
Caption: reputation
Caption: with the client
Caption: it um publicly undermines the team
Caption: members
Caption: and affects the the culture within the
Caption: the organization as well
Caption: if you were bob you'd go into it with
Caption: that personal lens of you made me feel
Caption: rubbish i felt humiliated it was a
Caption: horrible feeling
Caption: and often this resulted in the
Caption: individual
Caption: having a bad day
Caption: clearly but also they just didn't even
Caption: think about the impact and when we
Caption: highlighted it to them they actually
Caption: thanked us because they were like you
Caption: know what i was having a bad day i said
Caption: it i didn't even think about it i had no
Caption: idea that the impact was you know what
Caption: it was
Caption: and that is a really great model just to
Caption: get to the point
Caption: but in a kind and really specific way
Caption: another model
Caption: is the aid model
Caption: and this is where you use action here
Caption: to describe the situation similar to the
Caption: other model and the behavior all in one
Caption: so the example here is during the last
Caption: two projects together specifically xny
Caption: um you asked me to review and provide
Caption: feedback for
Caption: zed
Caption: whatever the day before the deadline so
Caption: this is action you're lumping all of it
Caption: into one
Caption: i like to use this model when someone
Caption: has done something that personally
Caption: impacts me i find this model really good
Caption: to use
Caption: because you go through the impact so you
Caption: describe the impact
Caption: um of that behavior and situation so as
Caption: a result i had to work over the weekend
Caption: to support you so this is that new bit
Caption: of information for that person
Caption: then we get to the desired and do part
Caption: and this is what the sbi
Caption: doesn't go into as much detail on
Caption: and this is why i think it works really
Caption: well if they've affected you as an
Caption: individual
Caption: in future if you could loot me in sooner
Caption: i could provide higher quality feedback
Caption: and be less stressed so it's a really
Caption: nice way to bundle up instead of saying
Caption: hey bob you like
Caption: you're you're crappy you made me work
Caption: over the weekend like you i it was
Caption: rubbish whatever you know there are so
Caption: many ways you could have said this
Caption: this
Caption: leaded to a really great conversation
Caption: with that individual around the fact
Caption: that they didn't even think about the
Caption: person having to work over the weekend
Caption: they made assumptions about that
Caption: person's workload and there was a lot of
Caption: other things involved
Caption: so a great model to
Caption: kind of remove any of those assumptions
Caption: and biases as well
Caption: so let's go into the framework now this
Caption: is a frame
Caption: the framework that we explained before
Caption: and this is before something that's
Caption: actually happened
Caption: where i wrote down kind of that
Caption: repertoire of responses i started to
Caption: think about questions i could ask and i
Caption: wrote it down in this framework but what
Caption: i'm going to do is tell you what
Caption: actually happened as well
Caption: so we've got
Caption: the intent section here and this is my
Caption: last slide i'm going to go through the
Caption: framework i've thrown a lot of models
Caption: and frameworks at you so i'll be done
Caption: after this but we've got the intent
Caption: so in this particular conversation the
Caption: intent was to share a piece of feedback
Caption: with that individual
Caption: and avoid it in future because it had to
Caption: be avoided what they did was not okay
Caption: but i also wanted to understand their
Caption: perspective why did they do what they
Caption: did so how you know you could word that
Caption: is thanks for your time today i'm going
Caption: to talk to you about some feedback
Caption: because i really hope to understand your
Caption: perspective here and i want to avoid
Caption: this again in future this is not a
Caption: threatening start to a conversation it
Caption: is to the point
Caption: which you know you could start off with
Caption: all those
Caption: you know niceties i'm not saying you
Caption: know don't ask them how they are before
Caption: a conversation um but you know just
Caption: getting straight to the point is really
Caption: going to help reduce that anxiety
Caption: using the feedback model so i as i said
Caption: lean towards sbi
Caption: so on july 1999 it wasn't 99 we've time
Caption: traveled for some reason in my example
Caption: but um you had a meeting with bob
Caption: to discuss a project update for client x
Caption: in an open setting environment you stood
Caption: over bob
Caption: and yelled this is absolute rubbish it's
Caption: not what i asked for
Caption: that is not the wording they used i had
Caption: to really dilute it
Caption: um
Caption: it was a horribly worded situation
Caption: then we're going to the impact so
Caption: there's a few ways i wrote a bunch of
Caption: things that this could potentially
Caption: impact and depend on how the
Caption: conversation was going was dependent on
Caption: what i would use here but you know this
Caption: impacts psychological safety within the
Caption: team environment it impacts the culture
Caption: of the team as well
Caption: standing over someone is intimidating
Caption: they needed to know the impact of that
Caption: posture
Caption: it's intimidating it's threatening it's
Caption: not conducive to a successful
Caption: conversation so there was a multi um a
Caption: lot
Caption: of impact that this had and that
Caption: individual really needed to understand
Caption: then we go into the perspective
Caption: so was this an accurate reflection of
Caption: what happened because at the end of the
Caption: day i might have only gotten bob's
Caption: recollection
Caption: for context i got bob's and everyone
Caption: else in the room's recollection so i was
Caption: relatively confident that that is what
Caption: happened but again
Caption: as that image showed there could have
Caption: been an eagle in there that i hadn't
Caption: found out about
Caption: so was that an accurate reflection walk
Caption: me through what you were thinking and
Caption: feeling now this is where the
Caption: conversation completely pivoted for me
Caption: because you'll see all my responses soon
Caption: as to what i was planning to say
Caption: but what happened here is we opened up
Caption: the fact that this individual was
Caption: experiencing some severe mental health
Caption: issues so the conversation completely
Caption: pivoted the person was having not only a
Caption: rubbish day but a terrible time and they
Caption: completely regretted their reaction they
Caption: knew what they had done was wrong they
Caption: had
Caption: made assumptions about the impact that
Caption: this has had and the severity of the
Caption: reaction as well
Caption: so this is where you know you really
Caption: want to show understanding for that
Caption: person
Caption: for this individual you know they knew
Caption: it was a lapse in judgment and so you
Caption: know i was like thanks so much for
Caption: sharing your perspective it makes a lot
Caption: of sense um it sounds like you agree
Caption: that this was out of character and a
Caption: lifesaving judgment as well so you're
Caption: just really kind of showing that
Caption: understanding that you've heard you know
Caption: that there was a lapse in their judgment
Caption: etc is where you put your hand up so you
Caption: know could the fact that this individual
Caption: was experiencing mental health issues
Caption: for for quite a while
Caption: you know what what did we miss is there
Caption: something that we could do to help are
Caption: there working hours too long
Caption: is there work too stressful what are we
Caption: doing are they as individuals as an
Caption: organization
Caption: to contribute to this situation and this
Caption: is where you really have to kind of be
Caption: real and be genuine in this situation
Caption: and then lastly this is when you go
Caption: through next steps so initially i was
Caption: going into with the lens of
Caption: you know we need to put together a
Caption: professional development plan you know
Caption: hr brain of me we need to put in a plan
Caption: for this person because they were a
Caption: manager
Caption: to never do this again so you know
Caption: collaboratively i wanted to discuss some
Caption: professional development opportunities
Caption: for them
Caption: do you need to do some coaching and pd
Caption: around challenging conversations
Caption: like i have a slide ready for it um do
Caption: you need to
Caption: you know go and to speak to managers
Caption: about situations that they've done
Caption: similar to this before
Caption: what this actually ended up turning into
Caption: was that they needed to engage with our
Caption: eop they needed some time off so the
Caption: solution is that collaborative stage
Caption: where you know i was saying to the
Caption: individual what do you need to avoid
Caption: this in future
Caption: i did have to highlight the severity of
Caption: the situation as well which you know
Caption: when you're dealing with this individual
Caption: i was quite close to so i know i could
Caption: be quite real with
Caption: we can't see this again and if we do it
Caption: will go down a more serious track of
Caption: warnings etc because we just simply
Caption: can't have managers reacting this way to
Caption: peers in in an office setting or in any
Caption: setting really
Caption: um but really a lot of the conversation
Caption: focused on this next step section so
Caption: this is just an example of how you can
Caption: use this framework but understanding it
Caption: would pivot at times as well you need to
Caption: be prepared for that
Caption: so my hope for today
Caption: after talking at you for close to 40
Caption: minutes
Caption: is
Caption: for my friend who was terrified of
Caption: challenging conversations i'm hoping
Caption: that we made them a little less
Caption: terrifying um give you a little bit more
Caption: confidence to have these conversations
Caption: and
Caption: promote growth as a result and also not
Caption: damage any relationship that's really
Caption: important as well
Caption: so that is my hope and i am happy to
Caption: take questions
Caption: um now or afterwards as well but thank
Caption: you so much for your time
Caption: thank you